for board of select men regular
apologize Eric. Um it is 7:07. We're
going to call the town of Andover Board
of Selectman regular meeting for Monday,
August 11th to order. And our first
order of business is the pledge of
allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the republic for which it stands, one
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.
Okay.
Um I'm going to make this difficult. Um,
I have to uh
we can't hear you.
>> Jeff, you're on mute.
Okay,
now I think I'm back. Now I have to get
back over here. Okay, first person uh
call uh public speaker, Kathy Palazi.
>> Good evening.
Um I just want to thank everyone uh who
took part in honoring our most active
senior, Lois Popoffs.
Um, I want to she turned 100 on July
25th and I want to thank uh our board of
selectmen uh that would be Ann Premier,
Carol Lee and Scott Persan who were able
to attend and I thank you very much. I
know that uh Jeff uh both Jeffs were
unable to come and I thank you very much
uh for even responding. I appreciate
that. And um the other people that I
wanted to thank, there's so many that um
I did put a letter in the River East,
but I'm not sure who read what. I wanted
to thank the um uh town administrator,
Eric Anderson, the register of voters,
Linda and Wall-E. They were there and
thank you for their support. I wanted to
thank um the fire chief and the deputy
chief and that would be Ron Mike and uh
Mindy Hegner. And I wanted to thank our
servers um Alicia Lee, Carol Lee, and
Carol Kuchka. They were fantastic. It
was so noisy and so many people. I can't
believe everyone got fed. Um I wanted to
thank Haley Kanto, our interim director.
She did a great job trying to organize
everyone. And I wanted to thank um our
superintendent Val Bruno who came by and
also um state senator MD Ramen and state
rep. Steve Weir who combined a wonderful
award for uh honoring Lois. Also, I
wanted to thank Matt Wright who
represented Joe Courtney who also had an
award for her. And I wanted to thank uh
the CEO of uh CBC P uh TV, Melanie, for
uh coming out and taking a film and
she'll let me know when that's ready and
I'll let everyone know um at the the
appropriate people so that they can pass
the word. I thank you. You can always
watch that. uh George Knox for driving
his 1925 car. He picked up Lois, took
her in the car. She was so pleased. And
um we wanted to um just communicate
um to everyone. Thank you. Our planning
committee was outstanding. Uh Sue
Schmidt, Carol Lee, uh they did the
invitations, the decorations, they
hoarded food, they set up table, they
were just all over the place. uh Perry
Lindley, Mary Dval, uh Geette Conrad,
and um and myself and Mike Pazy. Um he
was carrying extra chairs, and I really
appreciated that. So, we did the setup
and the takedown and we all had a
wonderful time. Lois was completely
overwhelmed, and she's still talking
about the party. And I want to thank my
daughter Tanya Palazi Hughes who baked
100 cupcakes. and also a beautiful cake
for Lois's table. She her relatives all
came too as far as California and
Florida. And thank you very much for the
long- winded speech.
>> Right. Um thank you Kathy. Um we'll move
on to Joan Heert.
I'm all set. But I'm glad to see that um
one of our most um longrunning seniors
was honored in such a nice way. Um so
nice to have that senior community
center so that we can have events like
this and it sounds like a lovely event.
I'm glad that it went well. Thank you,
>> Kimberly Person.
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Right. Um Linda Fish,
>> all set. Thank you,
>> Liz Latch.
>> I'm all set. Thank you,
>> Louise Goodwin.
>> Um, I also attended that event and it
was very very nicely nicely done to all
and I thank all those that actually did
this and actually attended and that's it
for me.
Okay, Marcy Miner.
>> Hi. Um, how are you guys? Hope you guys
are doing well. Uh, obviously you have a
lot on your plate here. I just wanted to
uh see I don't know if you got my
letter. I noticed that there was a um a
vacancy in the EDC committee and uh it's
a committee that I've been thinking a
lot about uh joining for a number of
years and uh I think it's probably a
good time for me to join that if um yeah
if there's still the vacancy and if uh
the board wants to have me there.
All right. Thanks.
Um, Tess Grass.
>> Nothing for me. Thank you.
>> Right. Um, Wally Barton,
>> nothing at this time, Jeff, but I'm here
for later on in your meeting if you have
questions. Thank you.
>> Yep. Uh, did I miss anyone?
>> Yes.
>> Uh, Haley Proto, I did. Sorry, I'm I'm
going through. There's more people that
came on. Um, let's go through it. Um,
Doris Maldonado.
>> Hi, I'm having camera issues, so I
apologize in advance. Doris Maldonado,
thank you for your time, and I am very
interested. Um, I know that they're on
hiatus, but um, I've been interested in
the community um, and disability and um,
uh, committee uh, with Elaine. And I'd
like to I've already mentioned to them
that I'd like to participate moving
forward so that the disability community
and me as a member uh can participate in
that endeavor. I'm also I'd like to
speak on um the wonderful work that's
being done at the community center. I've
been volunteering several times a week
um throughout the summer and it's it's a
concern for for many of us that we don't
have a a permanency um yet um although
everyone's working on it. Uh building
community throughout the lifespan is it
should be inclusive of all of the
abilities. Um, and that's important.
And, uh, promoting inclusive settings
with an inclusive mindset that'll create
empowering environments and the
community from birth to aging is is
critical in Andover. And I've only been
here for for se a few several years now.
Um, and but it's the only way that our
children and seniors and families in
town uh, will successfully live and and
enjoy growing old and growing um, and
growing young here for generations to
come. Having that director provides
consistency and opportunities. I have
heard um in several conversations with
with um several of our residents that
there's a concern um of with the the
timing and and with the budgeting, but
there are vested community members with
experience and urgency to make the
center a prized possession for all that
enter and and will benefit from it. So,
I urge the the all of you to consider
that. Um there are many of us waiting
and and yearning to to see it go fully
um forward so that we can join forces
and thank you so much for your work.
Thank you.
>> Great. Haley,
>> I don't have anything at this time, but
thank you for all you do.
>> Um Linda Fish.
>> Whoops. All set.
>> Okay.
Um, I think I got everybody this time.
Anybody that I missed
speak up if I did.
Okay.
Um, we'll move on to item three,
which is uh additions and changes to the
agenda.
Do any of the members of the board have
any changes that they'd like to see made
to the agenda?
Ann, no. Carol, no.
Um, Scott,
>> Jeff Murray,
>> um, as long as what we have on the
agenda is going to cover what was
discussed. Um this week we're we're
fine.
>> All right. Um
um
I would like to make uh I'd like to add
a 5A appointment. Um,
I'd like to discuss a potential
appointment to the EDC
and
under
9 C
I'd like to add 9 CD.
Uh,
appointment of
um discussions. Let's go. discussions
regarding the appointment of uh
assistant town clerk subsequent to the
resignation of
assistant town clerk Brittany Commtock
which is effective August 22nd.
>> I'll second that.
>> Okay. Uh I don't think I have anything
else. It's a extremely long agenda, but
uh does anybody have anything else? My
Scott, I know I didn't get a chance to
hear from you. Is he on? Actually,
he is not on.
Okay,
Eric, here you're on mute.
>> He was on. I do not see him on now on my
participants list. I don't know why.
>> Um, Eric, do you have anything that
we're missing um that we need to sit
there and add to this?
>> Uh, no. I think this is a pretty funny
long agenda already.
>> Okay. Um,
so Jeff seconded those two items. Uh,
any further discussion on those two
items?
>> No. All those in favor? I
>> I
as well.
>> Okay. Carol off mute.
>> Okay. So, Ann Cray voted yes. Carol
voted yes. Jeff Murray voted yes. Jeff
Magcuire voted yes. and Scott, we're
going to say he abstained, but we're
good.
>> Okay,
>> Scott is joining again right now.
>> Well, he's going to have to accept that
that he is abstained.
>> All right. Um,
uh, item four, boards and commission
presentations. I'm assuming, Eric, we
have none.
>> I see.
>> Correct,
>> Eric. None. Okay. Item five,
appointments. Uh 5A is a a potential
appointment to the EDC. Um I'd like to
make a motion that we appoint Marcy
Miner to the EDC
as she has requested
verbally told us during public speak
that she'd like to participate on that
uh committee and I think it would be a
good choice. So I make a motion to
appoint Meer to the EDC.
>> Second.
>> Seconded by Carol Lee. Any further
discussion on that? No. All those in
favor I
>> Ian
>> Corre I Carol Lee
>> I
>> I Yes.
>> Okay. Scott Person come off mute.
Come off mute.
>> I
>> I uh Jeff Murray
>> Okay. Five nothing. Thank you very much.
Um uh item six uh resignations. Um 6A is
the assistant town clerk resignation. Um
we received uh a letter from Britney
Commtock regarding um her resignation
effective August 22nd. Uh we have that
also in section 9. So we'll discuss that
future. Does anybody have any issues
related to that resignation?
>> No. Okay.
Um item seven, account administrators
report. Eric,
>> so we have such an enormous packet. I'm
I don't think I want to give you an
administrator's report just cuz in the
interest of time. I will take questions
if all of you have them though.
Um our highest level items and do it now
so that we're all aware and then I
understand we have an
Uh, I'm sorry I missed part of your
question, Jeff.
>> Okay. Can you hear me now?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Um, I was saying that I would like
you to sit there and go through the high
level items that you have.
>> You don't have to go through the detail
of all the report, but just at least so
the community gets an understanding of
what you're working on and what are the
critical issues that you're facing right
now.
>> Okay. Um, the thing that's taking up the
most of my time lately in the last day
or so has been the uh the bridge at uh
Bunker Hill um which will be later on in
the agenda. Uh we also have we are
making progress towards the playground
um and the design and con easy IC easy
IQC contract for the playground. Um, you
also have in your packet the uh the
current state of the proposal for the
senior transportation garage to be
located at center street. That is also
an easy IQC project. Uh there is a cost
estimate in your packet in a separate
packet called easy IQC packet because
the agenda was just too long to make
everything a big packet. Um so but what
I would like approval when we get to
that is just to uh pay for a full-blown
design of that project as opposed to
agreeing to the whole thing right up
front. Um, we also have the uh squad
rescue pumper which has made it to
Connecticut. So, we need to get along
with approving the financing and getting
that rolling so we can get that in
service. Um, because that is basically
will be ready for service quite shortly.
Uh we also had a request for uh
quotations
um that came back today for the
construction inspection and construction
management services for the Longill
Bridge. We had four design firms submit
applications for that. Um there will be
a committee selected uh to review those.
Um, that committee has to be approved by
the Department of Transportation. It
will most likely consist of Todd Penny
who is Coventry's engineer. Uh a guy
named Mark who also works for the town
of Coventry who's a former DOT engineer.
Ed Sriley uh who is a has a doctorate in
engineering and myself and probably Mark
who is a DOT engineer. That will likely
be the committee. Um, and the the goal
here is to pick the construction
inspection firm for the town in the next
month. Um, we also have in a couple days
the pre-advertisement
meeting for the Longill Road Bridge to
go over the paperwork requirements for
that job. Uh, which is expected to start
next April. Um, those are the biggest
items on the docket. Um, additionally,
I've been putting in a lot of time
trying to get DOT to consider uh revisit
its consideration for a traffic light
either temporary or permanent at uh for
the period of construction of the
Longill Bridge at Hendy Road because
there will be a a traffic uh problem. in
in your packet there is all the
information for the local traffic
authority for that. Um, additionally,
we've had correspondence with uh both D
and DOT on a variety of projects. Uh,
the Capitol Region Council of
Governments and I have prepared a letter
to the DOT signals asking for some
improvement uh at both the Lake Road
Route 6 interchange and the 87 Route 6
interchange as part of a scheduled
signalized upgrade. Uh and both those
came out of the bikewalk audit that we
conducted earlier in the month. Um
that's that's really the highlights of
what uh has been going on. Um
additionally, we will be interviewing
for the replacement for the public works
supervisor as well as a public works
maintainer on this Thursday. Uh
following that I got a couple more
meetings on Friday and then I will be
off in Iceland for about 10 days. So
that's all I have in terms of a highle
overview. Again, unless you have
specific questions for me,
>> right? Thank you. Does any any of the
other members have specific questions
they want to ask Eric about anything he
just went over?
No. Okay.
All right, let's uh get on to item
eight, old business. Um discuss and act
upon item AE ZIQC proposal from Gordian
Group. Um
there's a request for approval for
design and a build cost estimate. So
Eric, why don't you go over those items?
>> Sure. So, all I'm asking for now is
permission to sign a contract with
Gordian to give us a full design
proposal. Um, while I think the cost
estimate for the whole proposal is
accurate,
you know, I don't have enough
information to want to say yay or nay on
the entire project. Um, I want to see
the the full-blown design, structural
loading of the second floor and how
they're dealing with the uh existing
walls, where the step downs are going to
be and a bunch of things in that. And I
think that's reasonable. Um, we're going
to pay for the design anyway. Um, I
would rather pay for the design first
and know exactly what I'm building
before we commit to the much larger sum
of money, which is
>> Okay. So, so just to be clear, just so
everybody understands this, this is
design proposal on the old firehouse,
which is potentially the new um facility
to store senior vehicles and that we've
discussed about potentially having
additional storage for
the various organizations with the town
that needs storage such as the wreck
commission.
>> Correct. So what happened was several
members of the board came back to me and
said they wanted it redesigned with full
upper level storage that was directly
accessible from the upper level. So that
is more expensive. But what it does give
you is it does really increase the
amount of storage space in that um
there's every bit it so essentially this
building now is two full stories um you
know plus an attic that will not be
accessible
um if that makes sense.
And that building will also be facing in
the correct direction to potentially
allow it to have a solar panel set up on
it in case we want to do that in the
future.
>> Correct. That roof is one side of that
roof faces pretty well solar south. So
that would be amenable to a good solar
system on that roof.
>> All right. So what you're asking from us
is permission to go to the EZIQC
group and the Gordian to get to request
the design proposal and just
just so you can verbally give it to the
board and to the public. The EZIQC
program does what? And is sponsored by
you?
>> Okay. So uh this is something that is uh
it's a nationwide program but this
particular one is sponsored by the uh
CROG or the Capitol Regional Council of
Governments although it applies to all
of the regions in Connecticut. What it
is is a it's a a program that is
administered by a company called
Gordian. And what they do is they go out
and solicit bids from construction
companies in a series of different com
capacities. So they competitively bid uh
for construction services by design
category. They have a book of about
15,000 tasks and each task is a assigned
a cost per unit basis. So then what
happens is once you have a project, you
agree on a scope of work and what that
project entails and how many units of
each thing are required for that project
and the pricing just essentially comes
out of the proposal because the unit
costs for most things are pre-bid. So
that is what I'm proposing. Uh, you
know, it's similar to what we did with
the earlier connectivity grant project.
Um, and I'm going to suggest we do both
the senior center garage as well as the
athletic field uh construction through
this method. The state is happy with it
in terms of the state agencies are happy
using this program for state funding. Um
it is a competitively bid
you know system. So it's uh it runs with
our current purchasing policy. So that
is my suggestion
>> and we use we use this for the
connectivity grant.
>> Correct.
>> Okay.
>> So can I can I just ask a question? So
Gordian then is the one who looks
through the RFPs and selects the person
the company for us.
>> So what Gordian does is every two years
they go out to competitive bid on a
two-year contract for each construction
major construction category. Like one of
them is highway and roads, another one
is building and structures.
and they select a contractor,
you know, based on a set criteria. So,
it's done on behalf of the COGS, but
it's done by the Gordian group um and
using the Gordian group's list of tasks
um in cost basis for tasks, if that
makes sense.
>> Okay.
>> And do we have any flexibility to to use
any local contractors if that ever comes
up?
Uh so the answer is it would depend
whether the builder himself is going to
has their own people to do something or
whether they're subbing out a task. Um
the last one we did it for the
connectivity grant. We use some local
contractors. um we asked them and then
what so in most of those cases when we
get to that point we give them a list of
local contractors and they then ask
those local contractors to bid on the
project or the subtasks of the project
but ultimately in the end it's the the
general contractor who gets to decide
who he picks for subs not the town.
>> Okay. So in this situation, you're
you're requesting that this we use this
to go out for the design proposal on the
new building.
So, I think ultimately we're going to
use them to actually build the proposal,
but I don't feel like I want to sign off
or recommend that we sign off on the
entire contract
until we have a uh a more solid set of
build documents than we have now. And
they're not going to spend the time
because he's going to have to go out and
hire an engineer. Um he's not going to
do that. you know, without getting
knowing he's going to be reimbursed
because that's, you know, he's basically
told me that that represents his cost to
get a final design.
>> Okay.
Anyone have any other questions
regarding the
easy IQC program?
>> All right. Then I'll make a motion that
we authorize um the town administrator
to request from the ECIQC
proposal from the Gordian Group for a
design proposal for the new senior bus
storage facility to be located at the
old town, the old firehouse.
>> Second that.
Okay. Further discussion on it.
All those in favor? Uh an
>> I.
>> An Carol
>> Scott,
>> you got to say it for me, buddy. So that
the person writing our minutes,
>> Scott Person says I.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> All right. Jeff Maguire. I Okay, thank
you very much. That's five nothing. Um,
all right. Item 8B, the community center
signage discussion. Um,
I believe I sent everybody the the
proposal from the sign company, Arts
Sign, that uh
the gentleman that did the signage
that's done on Route Six. Um,
well, listen, I I thought it was a nice
it was a nice time. I don't know if
anyone has any comments, if they'd like
to make any comments. I mean, I know we
have that budgeted. We could actually
get that done. Anybody have any issues
related to the signage that was
proposed?
>> Okay. Murray, do you have any um
>> questions? You had some last time. I'm
all right with it.
>> So, we're My question, the one for
that's on the building is what we're
talking about now, not this other thing
that's on a post or are we talking about
both?
>> Correct. The one that's on the building.
He's thinking about putting one up by
the street, which is not
>> Okay. No other further question. Uh
I I
I'll make a motion that we authorize the
town administrator to move forward with
the uh signage for the community center
um the community the senior and
community center as proposed by arts
signs.
Someone want to second an seconding
that. Okay, we're gonna go through. Any
first alphabetically?
>> I Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> I Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I 5 nothing. All right.
Um 8 C Bunker Hill Bridge update. Eric.
>> Okay. So, I sent you all a whole bunch
of information. Um I'm going to give you
try to condense this. So the type of
bridge that we are putting at Bunker
Hill has consists of six pre-stressed
concrete beams that run the whole 80
foot length between the two bearing ends
on the bridge. Of the six, two of them
were poured with defects. Um so the
question has become do we attempt to
uh repair the defects or do we require
the manufacturer to repour new beams. Um
so myself and Scott were at the final
design
uh discussion meeting. Um, and my
recommendation to you is that we require
the contractor to pour to repour the
beams as opposed to attempt a repair.
Um, even though I think the repair in
the short term would probably be very
successful, my concern is the long-term
durability of the repair. Um, so the the
question that this raises is that this
is going to take a uh a big chunk of
time. It will probably be around 7 weeks
before we have the replacement members
built and delivered to Andover.
that is likely going to push the bridge
project past this year's construction
season, which means there's a very good
chance that that bridge will not be open
till April or May of next year. So,
that's going to have a really
significant impact on the residents of
Andover. Um, and it's something we got
to consider carefully, but it's weighed
against, you know, a bridge with a life
expectancy of 75 to 100 years, starting
off with a significant defect that's
repaired. So, um, I didn't necessarily
feel like I wanted to make that decision
all by myself. Um, maybe Scott can weigh
in. He was on the meeting also. Um, I
listened to the opinion of all the
engineers that were uh that were present
um including the the engineer from the
state of Connecticut who also
recommended making them report the beam.
However, it is our decision as a town,
not the engineers's decision how we
proceed. So, I want to open that up for
discussion. Um,
>> who did the testing?
>> No testing needed, Jeff. They're big
gaps underneath the beams. You can see
in big holes, one of them six feet long
on one of the beams.
>> So, there was no there wasn't like the
state doesn't have a test
settled into there.
>> Well, the pred.
>> The beams do get tested.
Um and there does have to be a testing
representative there when they actually
pour it. Um and that is the person that
uh notified
you know us in the contractor of the
defect. Um
but the the question is really what is
the extent of the defect?
um and whether a repair will have an
equivalent lifespan of the uh bridge
um and you know both the designer of
record CDR Maguire's engineer um as well
as the state um and I also gave all the
engineering documents and the repair
procedure to Ed Sriley and he also
recommended that we reject the beams
unless they were willing to warranty
them um essentially for the life of the
bridge which you know there's no real
mechanism for them to do. So my
recommendation to you is that we reject
the beans and require them to be
reoured. But we do that knowing that um
there's some possibility that we'll be
able to open the bridge up before
winter, but there's also a good
probability we will not and it will be
April. In other words, everything would
have to go perfectly after that for us
to finish and get the road open. uh this
construction season,
>> right?
>> Which he should. He's given he's given
the most
>> the worst possible timing situation,
which he should, but those guys that are
at the meeting today all said that it's
possible to get it done
this this season. You know, it'll be
they'll be putting this uh batuminous
down in in the cold weather. And if they
can get it all down, then they can put
the guardrails. then we can use uh you
know mafia blocks for the guardrails
until springtime. But
I went to the meeting thinking that
maybe it would possible to fix those
voids. But after listening to all the
engineers and reading all the documents,
it's never been tested. Nobody knows how
to do it correctly and we probably need
to get real new beams, especially for a
100 year span bridge.
>> Okay. Um,
I make a motion that we require,
actually before I make the motion, Eric,
who am I requiring to report the beams?
>> Uh, all you're doing is giving me the
authority to reject the beams and notify
NJR that they're going to need to have
them recast.
>> Okay.
I make a motion that we authorize the
town administrator
to notify NJR that we are rejecting the
beams and requiring that they recast new
beams uh according to specifications.
>> I'll second that.
>> All right. Uh we'll say Carol Lee
seconded that because that was the first
person I heard. Uh all the um Ann
>> I.
>> Yes. Carol Lee,
>> yes.
>> Scott Person,
>> Jeff Murray,
>> yes.
>> Jeff Magcguire, yes. So, five nothing.
Okay. Um, let's move on to 8D. Uh, OSHA
update.
>> Okay. No major update right now. I just
want to say OSHA will be back out on the
14th, so later this week to do uh to
monitor noise levels for public works
during normal operations to see whether
we are in fact required to have a
hearing monitoring plan in place for
employees.
>> Okay. Um
8E food truck discussion.
>> Sure. So at the last meeting uh I
believe Jeff Murray spearheaded an
operation or spearheaded a discussion
with Janet uh
Steanadus. Sorry if I mispronounced your
name regarding the uh allowance of food
trucks and town property. So, I think
he's probably the best person to to
address this.
>> I went to that meeting also with Jeff
>> and Scott. My apologies.
>> Okay. Which one of you'd like to talk?
>> You want to do this?
>> I can do it if you want.
>> Go ahead.
>> Um, we met with the applicant that
wanted to um locate a food truck in
Andover
um on on town owned property.
Um, we raised uh several concerns and
things that we were we were worried
about as far as the operation and and
traffic and um hygiene and and um how
she was going to operate this on a daily
basis.
And um a couple major um items came out
that the board should consider is
um we're probably going to tend away
from a uh I mean she was considering a
long-term lease of a of an area of town
property, but I think Scott and I both,
you know, we opted to
um make it a day use uh permit. So, if
somebody wanted to come and set up on
town owned property, they would have to
come to the town hall, fill out a
permit, pay the fee, and um they would
be allowed to set up for the day. Um
there was a couple concerns that I did
have. Um one thing is uh the applicant
would have to have a um a reasonable
amount of liability insurance to operate
on town property. Uh the second was a
restroom and an area to um san you know
sanitarily wash your hands uh you know
before before I mean before preparing
food and then the you know one of the
other third things was you know set up
and take down for the day. Um and then
we also discussed some locations. Um we
felt that the ball field for a temporary
one-day permit would be acceptable.
We also um discussed that that um lot
over by over and over but we have also
as a town have issued or have talked to
and over over and over and we've um
we've allowed them to have overflow
parking there for their business. So
that would be something that we would
have to go and talk to them if we ever
decided we would locate a truck there or
any kind of business because we've
already we've already given them
permission to use that lot for for
overflow parking.
And then the third location was Lake
Road at the intersection of Lake Road
and Route Six in that parking area. Um,
that seemed to be the best fit because
of traffic in and out the overand over
lot. If we had a lot of people coming in
and out of there, the sightelines are
not the best and there's really no
stoplight to allow people to get freely
in and out of that lot. Um, and and if
and over and over was having a event or
a lot of customers that day, it may
impact their business as well. So, I
think we kind of focused on the the Lake
Road lot. Then we um we discussed, you
know, this that uh if we had to put a
port portable bathroom in there and and
uh a wash station to wash, you know, for
the employees at the of the food truck
to wash their hands uh to to comply with
Eastern Highlands uh for sanitary
purposes. That brought up a couple
issues because if we if we just issue
one permit to one person in town, that's
fine. But if we start getting multiple
requests from multiple food trucks,
um who's going to pay for the bathroom?
Is it going to be is it going to be the
original person or does it you know it
brought up it brought up some issues to
should the town um prepare the spot and
get the get the portable restroom and in
the wash station and then allow access
to people that you know apply for the
permits for the days of operation. And
then the third thing another thing was
the the winter months. You know if we
have a water wash station out in the
winter it's probably going to freeze.
So, do we want to make this a seasonal
thing or do we want to make it a year-
round operation? So, so those were the
concerns that we had. Uh, we proposed a
daily fee of around $100, approximately
$100 a day to use the site and the
person would have to set up and then
they would have to remove all their um
equipment and picnic tables, etc. at the
end of the day. So they would have to
come in with their vehicle or trailer
set up and then clean up any garbage or
trash that they would be responsible for
at the end of the day. So I'm I'm kind
of throwing this out to the board to see
what your thoughts are. Do you want to
make this something that the town wants
to
sponsor and have a have a specific
location down there and make it
available to uh any operator to come and
apply for a permit?
Because if we do that, we're going to
have to supply the restroom and the wash
station on a seasonal basis because I
don't think we can do it year round. Or
if we just uh apply let this one person
do it, they would be responsible for the
bathroom and the and the wash station.
But if we had another applicant that
came in that would that would create a
bunch of issues is, you know, she's
paying for that already. Would we put
two bathrooms down there? And if we get
a third operator, do we put three? It
kind of um it kind of makes a mess down
there. So, that's something we probably
should all discuss, but that was pretty
much our findings. I don't know if Scott
if you have anything to add to that.
>> Um, yeah, when we start to talk about
the
the board talks about it, I I want to go
over the uh usage of the spot down by
over and over because, you know, I was
at that meeting when they they said they
could use it with overflow parking.
I mean, that does not mean that Janet
cannot use it. It just said that
over Andover is going to use it as for
overflow parking and it's very except
when they have a huge turnout from some
big thing that that there's any parking
up there. So I want to do is talk around
with the board if everyone is in
agreement and if they are then that's
fine but I I don't see any reason why
she can't use that lot also. Well, can
we get um some information on the wash
station and what's required
because does Tom have a separate wash
station
>> down at that location? I know it's not
Tom property, but
does anyone know?
>> Eric's raising his hand.
>> So, real quick, I mean, the food trucks
and food vendors are uh regulated by
Eastern Highlands Health District. um
they have to have their own washing
capability
uh and food prep cleaning capability
prior to being issued a food vendor's
permit. So we don't have to deal with
that portion of it. Um that is a
requirement to be a food service vendor.
The the portaotty is a good point
though. Um, if you're going to have have
something there, then you could argue
that a portaotti is needed. Um, I'm not
sure it's a requirement for the health
department, but it does make sense.
>> Okay. Um, then
listen, I'll just go I I don't like the
spot. Oh. Uh um near and over and over.
Uh and over and over over and
over and over. I sorry. Um I never liked
that spot when the chick scoop was
there. It's a very difficult spot to get
in and out of. Um I don't even like that
Andover and Over is parking there just
be and I know no nothing has happened
and they have less traffic so I'm okay
with it. But if we had a daily food
truck there and we're expecting
consistent traffic in there, just Scott,
I just don't like that parking lot.
Never have. Um
I'd like to know the I'd like to get the
liability insurance issue rectified. I
don't have a problem with the $100 a day
except if we're paying for
uh a portaotti and it costing us $100 a
month and they use it one day uh a
month, we're paying for that
unit. So, we have to really think of
financially how it's going to work
because it's a little it's a little
business for the individual running it.
It's a business for us because we're
having an expense related to a
portaotty. So, I don't think we're What
What's her timing too, Scott and Jeff?
>> He's getting the uh trailer very soon. I
think within days of now.
>> Yeah. And I was under the impression
that she didn't have any handwashing
facilities in that trailer.
That was the impression that I got.
>> I I mean, I would have been surprised if
she didn't have some kind of um
washing in the trailer. I mean, they
usually have syncs. They they have to do
certain things.
>> Why don't we just ask her to talk about
it?
>> Okay, let's do it. Um, let's see.
>> Janet,
>> is she on?
>> Okay.
>> Janet, are you available to speak?
>> I don't see her.
Oh, there she is.
Okay. Um, well, listen, there are a lot
of issues related to it, like what's the
level of liability insurance, where we
have our setup, Lake Road or the or the
field as far as I'm concerned. Um,
>> yeah, Jeff, why chose those two
locations? We we do have stop lights at
both locations. So if traffic came in
and stopped, there is a traffic light
there for them to safely enter and exit.
>> Yeah. The the only thing about the Lake
Road spot is do we have enough parking
with the trail access usage? And I would
think the answer is probably yes. Um but
it's just something to consider. Um,
so
I mean it would be it would be good to
understand the um
the washing issue because that's an
issue, Jeff. I mean, if we're going to I
wouldn't sit there and really be in
favor of putting a wash station down
there that we have to remove seasonally.
I have no problem with um a portaotti
just to allow it to
be moved in and out if we chose to do
it. Um
but let's let's u see if she we let's
move this back further if we need to so
that we can move through our agenda. Um
8F is the Andover's finest update. Um,
does any of the members have anything
additional they want to add to that
discussion at this point?
Van, Carol,
Jeff, Scott? No. Okay.
>> No.
>> All right. We'll sit there and get to
that. I know that we promised Diane
Grier that we'll sit there and work on
that. Um, Eric, uh, 8G, uh, the status
of the field improvements in the ECIQC
preliminary proposal.
>> Yeah. So, we're not far enough to have a
full-blown uh design proposal. They've
given us a very preliminary cost
estimate, which is pretty high. Um,
but we're not we're not at a final
design stage. I mean, we knew it was
going to be considerably higher than
doing it ourselves because now we're
we're paying a general contractor. So at
a minimum project is going to cost 15%
more for the overhead and profit for the
contractor and we're also sub you know
substituting or substituting a lot of
public works labor um for the contractor
just doing the whole job. So there is a
significant cost adder. What exactly
that is, I don't know. But but uh the
saving grace is that we did have a
legislative appropriation by the
Connecticut legislature that we will be
able to use to make up the difference.
So that's all I have at this point on
that. Uh Scott is on the committee. Um
Scott, do you want to add anything to
that?
>> It's, you know, we're going places. It's
moving.
We're waiting for the final proposal,
but it's we're getting there.
Okay.
>> Do you guys uh Scott, does the committee
have a timeline on that? Like what
they're thinking? Is it next spring?
>> Probably not going to happen this fall.
>> Okay.
>> Can I just ask the question? Is are we
using those two $250,000
grants that
>> we received um towards this? I know it's
over a two-year period. 250 one year,
250,000 the following. But is that what
are we going to be using those funds?
>> We are.
>> Well, we'll be using one of them for the
project.
>> I don't think we need them both.
>> So, we next year we should still have an
additional allotment of $250,000.
So, but didn't we get a grant to do the
fields or
>> Yes, we also have a steep grant.
>> Okay.
And
>> the 200 the 250,000 is an extra
>> extra. But thank God we got that extra
grant from MD Ramen because when Jay
left
that all the uh inkind money from the
town public work that they were going to
do is now going to be used by that uh
grant that MD gave got us.
>> So
you do that in kind.
>> Okay. So the 250,000 is going to cover
what public works was going to do for
the inind part of that grant. Is that
what you're saying?
>> With a little luck. Yes.
>> Hopefully it's enough. So, we're not
talking about additional taxation for
the residents
um other than what the has already been
committed to at meeting which is
$150,000
from the multi-use building fund towards
that project.
>> Okay. And that's okay. Even though we
had
so the original grant to do this right
we had to provide inind services
with that grant correct
>> isn't that part of the grant like
>> so we weren't guaranteeing that we were
going to provide inind services we were
guaranteeing that we would spend so we
have to match for most state grants 20%
of the total cost. So, it was a $500,000
steep grant. That means the town has to
have at least $150,000
worth of skin in the game. Um, you know,
whether that is services in kind or just
money from the multi-use building fund.
So,
>> and we have enough money
in the multiuse building fund to cover
that 150,000.
>> We do. Do you know what our balance is
of that multi-use building fund?
>> Uh, not off the top of my head, but it's
it's, you know, more than $400,000.
>> Okay. And it's okay that a second grant
is going to cross over the first grant
that you received for these fields.
Yes, there's no problem with using two
grants at the same time for this.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So,
um,
Scott, when do you think the, um,
so you're thinking construction next
year, but when do you think you'll get
the RFP and the information back? So, or
is that back or is it We're using ECI.
>> We're just waiting for a final proposal.
We have a preliminary one.
>> Okay.
and he was saying that, you know, it's
it's going to be tough to get that thing
going this fall because it's going to be
late. So, you know, optimistically, yes,
but it's probably going to be in the
springtime.
>> Okay. Anyone else have any questions
related to the field uh improvement
proposal?
Okay, we're going to move on to item uh
8H, the squad rescue pumper and updates
relating to that resolution, proposed
agreement, and the final invoice and
delivery information.
>> Okay, so you have quite a bit of
information
uh in your packet. Um, one of them is
the or you were given the actual uh
wording for a resolution
to approve
um
approve using Mnt. Um, I think at the
same time before we get into that,
Dennis O'Brien has some significant
concerns with the lease agreement that
he would like to speak to the commission
about prior to us actually signing that.
>> Yeah, I'm right here. Can you hear me?
>> Yep.
>> Okay. I'm right here. And uh in all the
years I've been a town attorney and the
50 years I practiced law, I've never
seen a contract as complicated and um
one-sided as this contract. Uh it it
doesn't it provides that uh for example,
I could go through a lot of things, but
it provides that uh to start that uh
they can uh they can assign this uh
contract to somebody else, anybody else
they want. They don't have to check in
with us at all, get our approval, even
mention it to us. They can charge us for
attorneys fees and negotiating the
contract in the attorney's fees for I
don't know for almost anything that they
that they seem to want to do. And uh I
just think it's too open-ended. I think
it's I think it's a contract of
adhesion. It's too um
too one-sided. And it's also something
that is a little bit beyond me because
I'm not an expert on the uniform
commercial uniform commercial code. I I
don't have much experience with it since
law school and uh I'm not I'm not
comfortable uh approving this and then
then feeling uh responsible for it if
something goes wrong because there's
there's there's an awful lot of I could
go through a lot of paragraphs with you.
>> No, is this the Mnt Bank contract?
>> Yeah. that you're speaking of. Okay.
>> It's the lease contract. I I I never
expected to see anything as complicated
as this, as lengthy as this with all
kinds of associated agreements and um
uh I I just think it it's just it's just
so one-sided in my view. I I thought we
should probably find somebody else to
look at it. I I hate to do that. I'm I'm
always interested in trying to save
money for the for the town. And you know
if you if I can do it I can save money
for the town because of uh because I
have a um you know retainer but um
>> I just can't do it. I I don't
>> Has any has anyone gone to Mnt Eric and
talked to them about the contract at
all?
>> No. They sent us the contract initially
and said before we go any further, have
this reviewed, you know, and tell us
what's agreeable or not agreeable with
this.
>> Well, I I can I can write a letter
saying,
you know, what's not agreeable to me,
you know, more more than anything else
about four four or five different items.
Then can we do that, Dennis?
>> Yeah, I can do that. I mean, I I just
don't
>> And then
>> I could never never never agree to
recommend to you that you sign off on
this.
>> It's like buying a pig in a poke.
There's nothing nothing in the contract
about how much you're paying. I mean,
Eric may have that information. I don't
know.
>> Well, I just think they just sent you a
standard document and
>> Yeah, I think so.
Let's go back to them and and give them
your analys your your basic analysis and
be as as aggressive as you need to be on
behalf of the town and let's get this
done.
>> I will be aggressive. I I I I don't
>> but let let's get this done and moved
forward because when is the vehicle
ready, Eric?
>> No.
>> It's ready.
>> Yeah. In New Haven.
>> It's in New Haven now.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Let's get this done. Um,
Dennis and uh,
>> all right, I'm gonna pick it apart and
I'm gonna I'm gonna mention the top five
or top six or seven items that have have
really annoyed me regarding this.
>> Okay. And if they were and if they if
they choose not to work with us, then
Eric, we'll go to a different uh,
contract attorney and get it wrapped up
as quickly as possible.
>> I mean, I think people who write things
like this, there's a special place in
hell for it. It's really It's really
should be a lot lot simpler than this.
>> Everything should be simpler in life.
>> Yeah. Well, not everything, but most
things.
>> Okay. All right. Anybody have any other
issues related to this?
>> Well, we going to push this ahead. We We
can't wait till next month.
>> We cannot wait. We got to get this done.
So, Dennis, as soon as you can do this,
>> Oh, you can sign up on it if you want
to, but I I will write you a letter
saying that uh you know, if something
goes wrong, don't come looking. don't
come looking for me.
>> So, so let's sit there and get our
issues back to them and see how quickly
we can move this along.
>> No, we're gonna have to okay it by via
email.
>> Via email.
>> Well, okay.
>> I mean, I think you can agree to the
resolution,
you know, because you're still not
authorizing a contract to be signed
until you have a contract that you're
amendable with. Um,
>> okay. I I don't disagree with that,
Eric. So, that was on page
>> 62 of the main packet.
>> All right. So, on page 62 of the
resolution, the town of Ander approved
financing for a squad fire apparatus at
the town meeting on 313 2025.
by a vote of 73 73 yes and two no votes.
The following resolution was offered for
adoption by the town of Andover Board of
Selectmen at regular schedule meeting of
on August 11th. Resolved by the board of
selectmen of the town of Andover,
Connecticut to approve the purchase and
lease of a squad heavy rescue pumper
fire apparatus from Spartan Motors USA
to be used for fire department
activities. The cost of this equipment
is $983,692
which town of Andover will lease through
a tax exempt initial lease through Mnt
Bank and or its wholly owned subsidiary
233 Jennese Street Corporation. At the
conclusion of the lease, the town of
Andor own the equipment for $1. Motion
to adopt the foregoing resolution was
seconded by
or hold off on that. And the roll call
for the uh adoption was as follows. Um
I'll make a motion that we approve the
resolution
um with the stipulation that the
contract with Mnt Bank is effectively
resolved in an amicable manner.
>> Second. That's my motion.
Scott Person seconded. So Scott would be
added to this resolution. Eric
um and the resolution will be signed by
the town administrator. Any further
discussions on this?
All those in favor? I um and Cre sorry
>> I.
>> Carol Lee
>> I
>> Scott Person.
Uh Jeff Murray. I
>> Jeff Maguire I 5 nothing. Okay.
All right.
Um
uh the uh SCBA not 8 I SCBA request for
from fire department. Eric, where are we
at that? What page do we start at?
>> Uh that starts at page 101 of the
regular packet.
So, you're telling me you're telling me
from 65 to 101 was all
related to the Mnt Bank Agreement.
Perfect.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah,
>> Dennis, let's make it four pages.
>> Um,
>> well, I don't know about four, but
>> so page 102 is the quote. Uh page 101 is
the information from the
uh fire commission or scuba information
added to the budget this year and the
capital fund of $137.
Current about current balance in the
fire department equipment fund 567,673
says assuming that the firetruck
purchase will instill a possibility
change orders after the build inspect
10ear payments.
So we have the final number. It's
slightly higher than that, but it's only
it's a very small amount higher. So it
doesn't change the the substance of the
argument.
>> Okay.
>> Um so what the fire commission is asking
for is approval to use $163,120
for How many units is this? Uh 16
>> correct
>> air packs, scubas, and 32 tanks.
>> Uh 32
>> 32 harnesses.
>> Yeah, I don't know how to describe it,
but Wall-E is probably on and
>> they're masks. They're Scott air pack
masks. That's what the 32 is.
>> So the AV 3000 is an air mask.
>> Correct. It's uh 32 of them.
>> Okay.
Um
we've had this discussion before.
They've aged out. The fire commission is
looking for approval to spend this money
and the money is available. Correct,
Eric?
>> That is correct.
>> Okay.
>> My understanding is if we place the
order now, we can have them in our hands
in six to eight months.
Um,
I'll make a motion that we authorize the
fire commission to
uh order 16
uh CSBA
firefighting. Let me give me a second.
Um,
Wally, give me the terminology that I
should use appropriately for the fire
commission. Scott Airpacks is basically
the brand name.
>> Scott
Airpacks. So, we'll call them breathing
apparatus
packs. Okay. I'll make a motion that we
authorize the fire commission to order
uh 16
uh Scott air packs, which are fire uh
respiratory breathing
uh apparatuses and um 32
uh air masks for a total of $163,120.
And for the funds to be taken out of
the fire department equipment fund, the
total amount would be63,120.
>> I'll second.
>> Carol Lee is seconding. Okay. Further
discussion on this issue.
Uh
Ann Crme.
>> Carol Lee.
>> Hi. Scott Person.
>> Hi,
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Jeff Maguire. I 5 nothing.
>> Okay.
Um, new business item.
>> Wall-E, thank you for all you do on the
fire commission that you do. And Wall-E,
make sure you wave to me the next time
you drive down the road. Okay.
>> I waved, but you didn't see it because
you were busy with the dog.
I apologize.
Okay. Uh 9A um this is new business
design proposal for the multi-use trail
D funding um
review and authorized contract with
Barton and Logitis
and town match authorized by public
meeting.
Eric, what page do you want to get? So
that is a separate packet uh that should
be listed as Percy Cookook_trails
um because it was long and it was a
separate item in it is a proposed
contract with Barton and Legudas
um as well as the D grant authorization
as well as a certified resolution of the
town governing body uh that we can enter
into that contract and the agreement to
spend the money uh the match from the
town. Um so
uh I think you have everything to
approve. Obviously this does require
town meeting approval or did but that
has already been done. So I'm just
submitting this back to you for final
approval. Um you approve it, it will go
to deep. I'm making sure Deep is okay
with this as is the contract as is. Um,
and uh, so we're not quite ready to sign
it right now, but I want to get this on
the books pretty quickly
if that makes sense.
>> Um, sure. So,
>> as
Go ahead, Carol.
>> I just had a question. And I know we
approved 83,500
at the special meeting on August 1st
last year, but I don't remember it being
a full match of that. I just remember
20,000 coming from the multi-use
building fund.
>> That is what the match is. The match is
I think it's actually 23,000, but I
would have to look up uh exactly because
the total is 104,000
of which Yeah. $21,000 match on the
town. So again, it's 80% state funding,
20% town funding.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you.
>> Yep.
>> All right. So, um I'll make a motion
that we uh authorize the town
administrator
to move forward with um
we authorize town administrator to uh
review and uh approve a contract with
Barton and Logitis for the design for
the multi multi-purpose
tray. trail, the Percy Cook Trail, uh,
funded by DEP. Uh, that is
that was approved by the town meeting on
August 5th, 2024.
>> Second, Jeff.
>> Scott seconded. Um, Eric, uh, so we're
in further discussion. Scott, person
seconded. Um, Eric, in the future on on
items like this specifically, please
have um um please have resolutions just
drafted like it just makes it easier
because I I am I don't feel I'm doing a
horrible job, but I don't feel I'm doing
a really good job. So, if we can have
that done in advance, that would help.
>> Um, yep.
>> All right. Any further any
>> Appreciate it. Any further discussion on
this?
Okay. Uh and
I
>> your name
>> favor Carol Lee
>> I
>> Scott Person
I
>> uh Jeff Murray
>> I
>> Jeff Maguire I 5 nothing.
Okay,
let's move on to um item 9B, local uh
traffic authority. Um
uh local traffic authority discussion uh
CROG crash data for Andover uh and B
Condot signal project letter to DOT
regarding the signals and C status of
signal installation on Hendy Road. Eric.
>> Okay. So, there's a bunch of stuff here.
Um, I gave you a standalone packet
called traffic_all
because I wanted to put everything
related to your role as a local traffic
authority in one spot. So, I'll take
them in order. Um, KROG has updated the
crash data for the town of Andover. I
put that in your packet because I think
it's worthwhile um in your role as local
traffic authority for you to review the
crash data. Uh if you turned to page 43
of that packet, you can see the
comprehensive crash data. And the first
thing you'll notice is that almost all
of the significant accidents um and the
majority of the minor accidents that
have occurred in the town of Andover
have occurred on state roads. not town
roads and the worst obviously being
Route Six. So, I think that speaks to uh
Jeff Murray's concern with the town
considering a uh you know speed cameras
uh for the Route 6 corridor at some
point. I think the the data clearly show
that if we were going to concentrate on
one area, that would be the area uh that
we concentrate on. Does anybody have any
questions about the crash data or have
had a chance to review the crash data?
Um
>> you're good.
>> Okay. All right. Um
we're actually all things considered if
you look at Andover compared to a lot of
municipalities were not doing too badly
but we can still do uh a lot better.
So the second thing is uh I put in your
packet we we sent a letter to DOT the
signals division uh related to the Lake
Road Route 6 intersection and the Route
87 Route 6 intersection after we
conducted the bike and walk audit of
those locations along with a request
uh to
uh to them to have a discussion with us
on improvements. If you start with page
one of that packet, those are the uh the
projects that are to be completed in
regarding the signalized upgrades of
both of those. And our goal is at the
same time they do that request them
request to them to make pedestrian
uh you know and multi-use safety
modifications to what's there now. Um if
they agree to it that will be a freebie
for the town that will just be wrapped
into the project. So that's what we're
going there trying to uh ask them to do.
You can see my letter on page three
which I requested that. Um and then
starting on page four is the summary
prepared by VHB on the town's behalf
regarding our request for a temporary
signal at the intersection of Route 6
which is also referred to as Jonathan
Trumbull Highway and Hendy Road. um
because there will be a significant
increase in traffic associated with the
proposed detour uh for the federal local
bridge project. Um as you all know the
Longill Road will be com closed for a
period of approximately 8 months to a
year and while we're doing it we will
divert all the traffic that is currently
on Longill Road uh to Hendy. So, you
have all the details in there of a
traffic study in gory details. Um, so
hopefully it makes sense and you
understand uh what we're attempting to
do and why. Um, this information has
gone to the DOT signals and to the
bridge uh working group. um and we're
hoping to get a response back from them
in the next month or so whether they're
going to approve this for a temporary
signal. Uh this was also one of the
things we looked at in the bikewalk
audit and uh it's my intention to uh
request that the active transportation
unit at DOT also reviews this um as part
of you know as part of the same thing to
kind of bolster our claim. So with that
I will take any questions that you have
regarding those studies.
The VHB U study was paid for by
>> uh the federal local bridge program.
>> Okay.
It has a significant amount of
information in it.
>> Anyone anyone in in town should look at
that. There's a lot of information. And
just so everybody in town is also aware,
how many times have we applied for a
light at Hendy Road, Eric?
>> Oh, I think about four at this point.
>> And how many times have we been rejected
>> uh each time?
>> Okay. So, um,
just for the community, we're we're
attempting to make this happen because
we sit there and understand that when
the Longill Bridge project is
undertaken, there's a significant amount
of road u access to Route Six that comes
down that road. Jeff Murray and and
Crema live in that area. They come down
that hill, they get on to Route Six.
What they're going to be required to do
is go up Long Hill, turn to Hendy, and
come down Hendy and get on to Route Six
at a an intersection with no traffic
light. And if they're turning left into
to go to Willam Manic, they
will have potentially significant issues
at that intersection.
Okay. Uh, let's hope the DOT
finally hears us because I remember the
last time they talked to us, they only
consider deaths at these intersections.
>> Correct.
>> Uh, that is one of the primary things
they consider. Um,
>> anyone have any other comments or issues
or something they want Eric to address
related to this?
Okay.
Well, let's uh do we have any anything
else, Eric? Do you have anything else
you want to address related to this 9B?
>> Uh, not not related to that. Nope.
>> Okay. Um, and any timing as to when we
might hear a a an acceptance or a
positive response or a negative response
related to this?
uh it is in the hands of DOT signals so
and VHB has asked them to expedite their
review because it is time critical since
this is something we're going to
construction on next April. So we're
pushing them very hard for review right
now.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you. Um 9 C um
9 C 9 A and 9 B. Um 9 uh
9 A
one second please.
Okay.
All right. So 9C,
a temporary appointment of the town
clerk. Um this um just so we're all
aware, Britney Comtock has resigned. Uh
the state of Connecticut had uh
communicated uh with me uh regarding
appointment of a town clerk because it's
required. Carol will know all of the
rules related to this.
Um, we need at this time to appoint
Britney as an acting town clerk so that
she can get some of her paperwork filed
timely and having I had a discussion
with her today. She said is her
intention is to clean up um any of the
paperwork filings prior to her leaving
on the 21st. Um,
so, uh, Eric and Carol, I know that you
guys have much more information on this
than I do. So, if you'd like to share it
before we get going and vote on this,
>> let's go.
>> You know, I I I think the active part
the town or the state was concerned with
is that she needs to be appointed both
the acting town clerk and the registar
of vital statistics so she can file
those on the town's behalf.
Okay. or receive those.
>> Carolyn, any information that you want
to add to that?
>> That's correct. She has to be acting
town clerk and that in turn would make
her the acting register of vitals to
business.
>> Okay. So, just so we're all aware as we
do this um
she will become that for the next 10
days. Is that accurate, Eric? Just just
letting us all know. Everybody aware?
>> Correct. All right.
>> Okay.
All right. So, um
I'm going to make a motion that resolve
that effective immediately assistant
town clerk Britney Commtock is appointed
acting town clerk and registar of vital
statistics of the town of Andover until
August 22nd, 2025 when her resignation
becomes official and that the approval
of this resolution must be reported
forth with to the office of the
secretary of state and to the department
of public health of the state of
Connecticut.
Second.
>> Carol Lee has seconded. Any further
discussion on this issue?
All right. Um
and K.
>> I.
>> Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Uh Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> And by the way, Scott Person said yes.
Uh Jeff Magcguire. Yes. Uh I So that's a
five nothing. Okay. Um
related to this issue, um we are we are
going to run into the same issue
starting um uh August 22nd and moving up
until the election. Um
this I would like to get taken care of
tonight if at all possible. Um obviously
we have an endorsed candidate by the
Republicans and an endorsed candidate by
the Democrats. I would rather not have
any
any issues with those two individuals
and the board of selectman being engaged
in that. Um what I had done with Eric
today when I was made aware of this, I
asked for
um assistants that had previously worked
in the office and that were still
residents of the town. There are two.
Um,
and Eric, I I do believe you told me
there were two. I know Lauren uh Persan
is one and I know that there was uh
Barbara Griffin was the other. Correct.
>> Not Griffin. Barbara, I want to say her
last name is Gro.
>> Gusho.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Um,
>> she is old president.
Okay. She's a Bolton resident. Okay.
>> Um well, that moves that even further
along the line. So, what um
and this is up for discussion before we
move forward. What I uh my thought was
is to appoint uh Lauren Prasan for a 60
or 75day term up until the election and
in the interim work toward hiring an
assistant town clerk as well so that we
can create as much flexibility in that
office as possible. and then have
someone be uh uh have the assistant town
clerk be there for when the elected town
clerk uh enters the office. And so
there's no lack of uh of timing in
between um what we're dealing with with
the resignation of Britney and what
we're doing uh at the time of the
election. So that was my my thought. Um,
I would like to open that up for
discussion so we're all aware of what
we're attempting to do within that
office and uh get some feedback so we
can move forward.
Anybody have any issues?
Okay.
Nothing, Carol? Nothing on this.
I'm just gonna ask. No. Okay. All right,
then.
Um,
what I'm going to recommend is that um,
and I'll make a motion that resolved
that effective August 22nd, 2025, Lauren
Persan be appointed temporary acting
town clerk and register of vital
statistics of the town of Andover until
the new town clerk register is elected
and sworn in after the November 4th,
2025 election and that the approval of
this re resolution be reported forth
with to the office of the secretary of
state and to the department of public
health of the state of Connecticut.
>> Second that.
>> And Ker seconded that. Okay. Um further
discussion on this because I know this
is a big deal, but I just think it's in
our interest to move this forward as
quickly as we possibly can. So,
as long as nobody has a problem, I'm
good.
Anybody else?
All right. Uh, and Crerme,
>> hi.
>> Carol Lee,
>> Scott Person.
>> Okay. Uh, Jeff Murray.
>> Hi,
>> Jeff Magcguire. I um I have nothing.
Okay. Um, and now I'm going to make
another um
um
Eric, you have a name in here.
>> So, I did
simply because the person reached out to
me and asked for the job. But that's a
discussion for the board. I'm not even
suggesting that's the person you should
hire. Um just if you're going to do it
quickly without a gap, that would be a
possibility. Um
>> well, we we have to follow the the
proper protocol on this than this. So
what so as a discussion purpose I I
would like to uh authorize the town and
the town administrator to do a search
for an assistant to that office because
in my head it's a it's important that
that uh we provide Lauren with we put
that into our our mentality that we have
to have that that role filled so that
that role can sit there and be
available. for the new town clerk that
November to be there. So, I don't
necessarily know, Eric, that it's
important that I have them the first
day. I'd rather you get the right person
so that we can sit there and move
forward. Um,
>> can I just add it is the elected town
clerk's
>> Yeah.
>> choice of who he she will pick for that
position. And that is statutoily.
Uh, we have an opinion from Dennis
O'Brien on that.
>> So, it
I'm just saying appointing Lauren to
fill that is great. And then whoever is
elected, she can assist them in the
transition
until they find a new person.
until the elected town clerk
>> selects her assistant town clerk
and Dennis can type in whenever he'd
like but it is the elected town clerk.
We've already appointed the interim, so
the office will be fine until the
election. And let me,
>> you know, Lauren's willing to stay on.
>> I I understand what you're saying,
Carol, but my question would been would
have been, what if Britney stayed? What
if Britney chose not to?
She chose not to run. Okay, so that's
fine. But what if she stayed on? What
would What would the town have done?
What would we what would we have done,
Dennis?
>> So, she she was she was appointed. Um,
that's a good question. I guess that is
a Dennis question. She was
>> just asking.
>> It is a union position and she was
appointed by an elected town clerk.
>> Right.
>> That's a really good question, Dennis.
>> Yeah, I I don't know the answer to that.
I don't know if she her her appointment
would survive into the the uh tenure of
the new town clerk elected in on
November 4th. Not sure. That's something
I have to I'd have to check. It's not
>> So, are you telling So, are you telling
me So, are you telling me that we we as
a board All right,
this is so ridiculous. We as a board can
appoint a um a temporary person that
>> Well, Dennis, I I want to know like
within the next
>> you can do you certainly can do what you
just did
>> and you had to do you appointed an
acting town clerk to succeed
>> Britney until the election.
>> The other questions are u I'm not sure.
Normally, assistant town clerks are
appointed by the town clerk. It doesn't
doesn't have to be limited to one,
>> but I don't know if a if Britney chose
to stay on as assistant and wanted to
stay on post uh November 4th, I'm not
sure that she would have a legal right
to stay on. Don't know that that issue
is not going to arise in her case
because she's leaving. But okay, the
question is is that has been raised is a
good one and I don't know the answer off
top of my head
>> and I I'm pretty familiar with the
statutes governing this uh but I don't
think that question is answered uh in
the statutes. There might be some case
law I don't know.
>> Okay.
I mean common sense would tell me that
we we appoint someone but um
>> common sense doesn't always seem to
work. I'm not saying you can't, but you
know, because she uh Britney is leaving
and she's leaving a a void.
Uh uh but I'm not sure that the board of
selectmen has the authority to replace
her at this time.
>> Okay. Then then I'd rather move move on
to another issue and Dennis, if you can
evaluate that.
>> I will. I will.
>> That would be great.
>> Yeah.
>> I know you would. You're the best.
>> I'm delighted. I'm delighted. I love
>> Okay. All right. Um,
>> I live to work. I live to work.
>> Okay. Uh, 9D andor elementary RFP for
bathroom renovations.
>> Um, I don't have it. I know they're
going to RFP, but I don't have any
information on that. So, are you telling
me the school has not I mean know I know
that Jeff Murray was part of a um a
meeting related to that, but are you
telling me that the town does not have
the RFP that was um
that was worked on by the engineering
firm? I forgot which one it was. I I
know I know their name and when you tell
me I'm going to remember the name, but
>> I would not have that. I haven't asked
the engineering firm itself for a copy
of it, but
>> we shouldn't have to.
>> Jeff Jeeoff, I I I I talked to
um
I talked to the board of ed chairwoman
today. She she contacted me and she's
working to rectify the situation. I told
her our concerns and she's working on
it. Expect an email in the next day or
two.
>> Perfect.
>> Okay.
>> So, Kaitlin Kaitlin Kaitlin is actually
working on it. I I spoke to her. She
agreed to me that, you know, while
Fussen O'Neal is writing the RFQ, um um
I spoke I I told her my concerns that
all bids should be sent to the town
clerk's office.
>> Okay. All right. Um let's just move on.
9E Firewood program.
Uh, I think Jeff had some uh something
he wanted to propose to the board
related to this.
>> This was something that I was I was
actually at my son's little league game
at Bliss Bliss Park in Marorrow and
there was a gentleman in the corner of
the parking lot cutting up a bunch of
firewood and I went and approached him
and I asked him, you know, is this
something that the town is leaving for
you? And he said, absolutely. that all
the tree cutters and all the clearing
that they're doing, they're leaving in
this location at Bliss Park in Marboro
and they're allowing residents to come
in free of charge and harvest the
firewood for for their wood stoves and
for heating in the winter. And recently
I went down to the transfer station and
I noticed there was a lot of hardwood
and a lot of decent, you know, sized
chunks that were in our brush pile that
we're going to just with that the town
was going to pay to chip up. And I also
noticed that there's, you know, and I
Eric can probably since Jay's not here,
Eric can probably comment on this, but
um, you know, we do have a lot of wood
that we try to get rid of. I don't know
if public works puts it on the brush
pile or not, but I think it would be a
great service to the to the residents of
Andover if we even to the people trying
to get rid of things if we had a
separate pile over next to the brush
pile down in the brush area where during
transfer station hours residents could
go down on Wednesdays or Saturdays and
harvest firewood and use it for their
personal use. um for us putting it in in
the pile and just chipping it up or for
just you know trying or you know our
wood our tree companies just hauling it
out of town. It should be something that
we should make available to the town
residents because I mean we do have a
lot of town residents that do need they
do use firewood to heat and they maybe
can't afford oil or can't afford other
means to heat their homes and you know
it I just think it would be a good thing
to try try out create the pile maybe in
one of those concrete bunkers that we
had from the old dump and just kind of
pile the wood in there. Um I you know
there is a um there is this Connecticut
state statute that holds municipalities
and land owners harmless to it for
anybody that harvestes firewood. So if
we had anybody come on to the transfer
station and cut and we make it free of
charge there's no liability to the town
of Andover if there was an accident or
somebody was injured. So, I just wanted
to propose that just as a cost savings
and as a benefit to the other people in
town that could probably uh take
advantage of it because it seems like
one of the the gentlemen I talked to in
Marorrow said it's a huge success.
Everybody seems to be going over there
and harvesting firewood
and you know if there's pieces left like
you know knots and other things like
that public works can just scoop it up
with the payloader and throw in the
brush pile you know when we're done if
we have pieces that you know people
don't want.
>> I have no problem with it. I mean, does
an does Marboro have a specific policy
that they've approved related to that?
>> I can look into it. I just wanted to
mention it to the board just to see if
anybody was if it was acceptable to the
members of the board. If it's
acceptable, I could I could look into
it.
>> I think it's a great idea. Anybody have
a problem with it?
>> So,
>> good idea.
in favor of it. Um, two things. One,
when we cut wood on the side of the
road, we tend to leave it there as long
as we can until we start getting lots of
complaints from the residents because
most of it does end up getting cut up by
residents who are going around looking
for firewood. Um, so and then we have to
go back and clear up all the crap they
didn't want to take um because it was
too big or knots or butt ends and stuff
like that. So I think generally speaking
we're kind of already doing it now. The
question is do you want to bring it to a
central location first or do you want to
leave it on the sides of the road? Um,
and the second thing is I I have a
little bit of concern with people while
the transfer station is open and people
are bringing in brush to the pile. Um,
at the same time people are cutting
wood, especially since we're talking
about being on top of a capped landfill.
My suggestion is we try it for now. But
if it looks like this is going to be
successful, the transfer station
property is large and right near the
entrance, we have a before you get to
the entrance, we have a lower level area
that we've talked about long term uh
developing for something related to
public works. What I would suggest is we
would make a landing there. Um, and then
that would be uh the area the firewood
is dumped. So, we keep it out of the
transfer station and on top of the
capped landfill because I just see
compliance issues with doing that there
long term. That's it.
>> Yeah, that's that's fine. And, you know,
we do have residents that dump hardwood
there. So, if we have a hardwood area
that they could just go and dump logs
or, you know, p pieces of trees that
they cut and they can leave there,
that's fine just to re just to upcycle
it to other people. Well, they're not
really supposed to be leaving. They're
supposed to be leaving rush only.
>> They are.
>> The problem is,
>> yeah.
So, so listen, it's a good idea. Let's
work out the logistics of it and try to
make it happen.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> What what what I can do, Eric, is it
okay if I contact Marorrow
>> and and get some information or is that
Do you know the Do you know the town
administrator over there that you could
contact?
>> Yeah. Um, you can certainly reach out to
him directly. His name is David Porter.
Uh, if not, I'm going to lunch with him
Friday, so I can mention that to him
Friday.
>> Well, how about if you're going to lunch
with him Friday, why don't you just
mention it and see what the pitfalls are
and then can we can you report back to
us at the next meeting?
>> Yeah, I can certainly
>> or just send us send us an email
basically basically what your findings
are.
>> Yep, not a problem. But I I'm certainly
in favor of the idea.
>> Yeah, I think it's just a great idea.
cuts down on our waste and you know it's
I mean residents are paying taxes to
have these trees cut so they might as
well get some benefit out of it.
>> Yep. Concur.
>> Okay, great. Okay.
Um
9F donation from Hoppen Hodgeges
treasurer has requested how to classify
or spend the money.
>> Sure. So my question is does the board
have any suggestions? So Hop and Hajes
is a event that gets put on annually and
the person who runs the event returns
some or all the profits to the town of
Andover. So we have a pool of money. Um
how would the board like us to spend it
because it's not part of our budget and
we haven't really classified. Um, in the
past we've spent it on sporting stuff.
In one case, we bought the picnic table
that is alongside the rail trail near
the Lake Road uh uh parking area. So,
what would you like to do with it?
>> How much is it?
>> I think it's around $900.
>> Is there something specific you think
where we could use that money to provide
something good for the community? Um why
don't we um individually come back with
ideas for this next month so that we can
think creatively. Um
>> okay
>> I think it would be great to use for
something that would uh generate some
community engagement and uh
I have an idea but I'll sit there and
let's hear everybody else's idea. give
everybody a idea and maybe Haley can
come up with something from the
community center and we can figure out
the best way to use that money.
>> Stuff at the community center.
>> Exactly.
Okay. Um
let's move on to 9G. Transfer of state
land to Andover by the DOT. Eric.
>> Okay. So, you are the board that gets to
approve a transfer of land as far as I
can tell uh from the Department of
Transportation. If you look on your
packet starting at
oh around page 107 of your primary
packet, you'll see the state is trying
to give us back a tiny little sliver of
land that is at the intersection of
Parker Bridge Road and Route Six. It is
>> not as small a sliver as you think.
>> Well, it's a thousand square feet.
That's pretty small in my book.
>> Um, so technically I can't sign for it
without your approval as a board. Um,
uh, but the DOT for some reason would
very much like to give us that land.
>> Scott, since you know the most about it,
what's the issue with that?
>> It says a lot. There was a house there
and they tore the house down when they
straightened out Route Six. It's down by
Parker Bridge and Route 6, that corner
in there.
>> Would there would there be any reason we
wouldn't want to take ownership of it?
>> I guess not.
>> Excuse me.
>> Say that again.
>> I I guess I guess there's no reason why
we wouldn't want to take ownership of
it, but
>> All right.
>> Eric, do you have any issues with us not
taking ownership of it or taking
ownership of it? Will it create any
liability on behalf of the Dow?
I can't see any liability that it causes
the town. There's no drainage structures
or no drainage within that piece. So, I
don't have any concerns with it. I I but
I also don't care whether we take it or
not because I don't see any value to the
town. So, it's neither good nor bad as
far as I'm concerned.
>> Is it up against somebody's else's
property like another house?
um
where a sliver of land that they did
during the taking in.
>> But I just uh
>> I just had a question for Dennis though
because we are supposed to have special
town meeting for the acceptance or
disposition of any real property. and
Dennis is just checking the charter for
us right now to make sure that it's okay
because it's DOT land if we decide to
accept it.
>> Yeah, it could also require an 824
review technically.
Hate to go to all those extremes, but
you may you may be absolutely right,
Carol, and if we do, we have to do it.
I'm going to check I'm checking I'm
looking at the charter right now on my
phone. So, um
>> I would call this a dimminimous
I I understand. I don't know that
there's any uh would you say it was a
thousand square feet?
>> Uh it is 997
square feet.
>> Do we do we I mean listen, do we mow
anything in that area?
>> Not that I know of.
>> No.
Oh,
>> is the state going to be required to The
state's not going to mow this area. I
mean, are we going to have to mow this
area? I mean, not that I care. It's
thousand square feet. It's It's not very
big. Um,
>> it is big, Eric. Scott, I apologize. How
about we sit there and make a How about
we sit there and make a motion that as
long as all of the requirements are mess
are met, you know, regarding the 824 or
anything else like like that that we
accept the
I mean, it is on route six.
>> That's a good motion.
>> All right. So, I'll make a Go ahead,
Ann.
>> Well, I can either do it now or during
the discussion. Um,
what I ran into with being on planning
and zoning, there's a section on
Hendee where I guess the road was
straightened out 20 or 30 years ago or
maybe more. And there's a strip that the
town owns. When somebody wanted to
build, they couldn't because supposedly
they didn't have access to the road
because the town owned a little skinny
strip. They didn't have enough frontage.
And that's a strange little thing, but I
wouldn't want somebody to run into that
kind of thing somewhere else because the
town owns a little strip. I would think
it should be going to the nearest
homeowner instead of to the town. Maybe
the state won't do that. But I just
maybe we should give it to the next.
>> Couldn't Couldn't we have granted an
easement?
>> Couldn't we have granted an easement for
that individual?
Maybe I I don't know if they ever came
to the town. They came to the the
planning and zoning and they turned them
down.
>> Okay.
>> So, I'm just trying to wonder if we
might end up with a complication.
>> Yeah. They didn't have enough frontage.
>> Yeah.
>> The town owned the property that little
strip which I thought the town should
have given it to that
>> the homeowner. So if you wanted to do
that, there is there are no stipulations
in this transfer
that says you can't then transfer it to
someone else. The only thing to consider
is that they still have an easement to
slope
and a second easement to slope from the
two land owners.
uh you know in their original easement.
So although they're giving us the
property, they still hold an easement
over that property and if we transferred
this to somebody else, that easement
would still apply. But there's nothing
like like when the Route 6 corridor
stuff for the Route Six Expressway was
given to the town, that was given to the
town with stipulations over use. this is
not. So the town could do anything they
want. Um but then I would assume that
would definitely take a meeting if the
town's going to sell turn around and
sell that property. I was looking at the
acquisition of less than a thousand
square feet as a dimminimous operation
that would not require an 824 or a town
meeting because if it requires a town
meeting, it's not worth us even
acquiring it.
>> Um it does. There's no way it's worth
that. 304 C of the charter seems to say,
you know, a town meeting is required for
any acquisition of property, any
acquisition or alienation of property.
And uh, you know, just wait until they
have a town meeting, something else you
want to put on the agenda. You know,
there's no time limit. The state isn't
giving you a time limit on when you have
to accept it.
>> I thought they did.
>> It did.
>> Oh, Jesus.
Well, then we just for that. You got any
other items you need to go to town
meeting in?
>> No, we're not going to town meeting.
>> So,
>> okay. Well, that's a
>> All right. Well, if that's the case, if
we can't look at it as what Eric is
thinking as a dimminimous transaction
because it is so small,
>> then take it.
>> You could, but I can't I can't I can't
recommend that because
>> Okay, then let the state keep the peace
property. It's not going to impact the
town. Let's move on.
>> No problem.
>> Okay. Um 9H, uh the NIP program request
for expenditure.
>> Sure. Um a town resident Megan Lai was
listening to the board of selectman
meeting when we were discussing the
disposition of the money for the NIP
program. What she suggested is that uh
based on the state statute enabling that
that uh she proposes a community
engagement program that's geared around
education for what goes into the storm
drain system. Um and I put her letter in
the packet is starting on page 112. Um I
think that's a great idea. I would like
to empower Megan to use the NIP money to
create a program on behalf of the town
of Andover to do that.
>> How much money are we talking about?
>> About 3,000 bucks.
>> And what the what is the money going to
be used for?
So, one, an education campaign, and two,
putting the little placards on all the
sto the town's storm drains uh both in
the Lake District and throughout the
remainder of the town. Um, and there's a
link to a flyer uh for a similar program
in there.
>> Is there any way you get a breakdown of
the cost and what's going to be involved
with the plaques and everything just to
see where the money is going to get
allocated?
Uh, if you would like further details of
the program, but you're generally in
favor of it, I would be happy to tell
Megan that you require more information,
but that you're strongly willing to
consider that project if she gives you
the appropriate information.
>> I have to see if like $2,000 is going to
be spent on plaques, $1,000 for this.
Are we hiring somebody to to, you know,
basically put this together or is Megan
going to volunteer her time? Um, that's
that's kind of what I'd like to know
what the basics of the program would be.
>> Uh, I think she would be volunteering
her time for this.
>> She certainly indicated to me that she
would do so.
>> Okay.
>> I've seen those plaques in other towns.
>> Yeah. As have I.
>> Well, I just like to see what they cost
per, you know, each, how many basins we
have, and, you know, make sure that that
is enough money. make sure she can
successfully do it. I mean, it's a great
idea. I just want to make sure
>> the funds are s, you know, significant
enough to pull it off.
>> Okay. So, Eric, can you request for
Megan that information so we can sit
there and you can give her the number
and see if the budget the budgeted
amount would work and then we can come
back next meeting to make a decision.
>> I can certainly do that.
>> Okay. Uh item 10, approval of meeting
minutes. Um
7:14 2025.
Anybody have any issues?
Right. I'll make a motion that we
approve the uh board of selectmen
regular minute meetings for July 14th,
2025.
>> Second. Carol Carol Lee seconded. Uh
further discussion and creme
>> hi.
>> Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Maguire. I 5 nothing.
Uh item 11, the treasurer's report.
Any questions?
Eric, are there any issues that we
should be addressing on the treasurer's
report?
>> Uh, not at this point of the year. Um,
the only thing really I know of that
will be over this year is we got
something back from the Connecticut
State Police that they have recalculated
what their indirect costs will be for a
resident trooper. Um, and they're higher
than what they estimated as of last uh
January when they gave their in
assessment. So looking at his contract,
it's higher. Um, so it looks looking at
his contract, my guess at this point is
we're going to be over about 8,000 bucks
on the resident trooper line item.
That's the only thing I have at this
point that's really of concern.
>> Okay. Any other questions for any other
members?
Okay. Tax collector's report.
Uh, I spoke to the tax collector today.
I told her she did a great job on the
the tax sales. Uh, it was a very
positive result. Um,
>> I talked to her also, Jeff. Told her the
same thing. Did a great job.
>> Yep. That caught us up about $167,000.
So that was well appreciated.
>> Okay.
>> Do we have authorized refunds or no?
>> So we do have authorized refunds.
That is in your packet.
>> I saw that there's only three.
>> Yeah, it's on page 153.
There's $18.51
to Frank Chavez, $22.83 83 to Steven
Barnett and $21326
to Kevin Kenus. So the total tax refunds
are $25460.
So, I'll make a motion that we approve
uh tax refunds uh that total $25460
as reported by the
wow the tax collector.
>> Second that.
>> Seconded by an creme. Further
discussion. All those in favor and creme
>> I.
>> Caroli
>> Scott Person
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray
>> I'm an I.
>> Hi I.
>> Okay. Jeff Maguire I 5 nothing. Okay. Um
departmental reports. Uh, does anyone
have any questions for the other reports
that were included in the packet?
Okay. So just to give them
the assessor provided a report
the building department uh I I met Linda
War Lynn War Werner today uh very nice
appreciated that time with her. Uh the
registars of boarders provided us a
report and the library provided us
report. Any questions related to their
information?
Okay.
>> It's the same thing, Jeff. The we used
to get a detailed report from the
building department about permits.
>> And I didn't see a blight report in
there.
>> We didn't um I w and I did ask for that
to be included in the departmental
reports. Even if it's not discussed, I
think it's good information for the
community. So, Eric, if you can look
back on that, that would be great. Um
>> and um
>> remember back a year or two ago we used
to get good building reports.
>> Um
>> building department.
>> We'll sit there. We'll sit there and
talk to the building department. I
talked to her about the
the fee collection and and the rest of
that information. So I do think we
should get some more information on
that, Scott, and just let
>> a good amount of fees every month there
that come in.
Uh not enough as far as I'm concerned,
but understood. Uh I would actually like
to uh move over um
um 14, 15, and 16. And I'd like to move
to public speak so that we can have it
before uh the residents uh leave and
then we can move to executive session.
Does anybody have a problem with that?
>> No. Okay.
All right. So, I'm gonna sit there and
if I miss somebody, I apologize. I'm
going to go because my phone does this
alphabetically. So, I'm going to go
Doris Maldonado.
>> Yes, thank you. Um, we have youth
seeking uh uh community service hours.
Um, I while I was at the center, I had a
few and I've I've I've been contacted by
opportunities in the community. Um my
children themselves began community
service when they were in elementary
school uh with Eelyn Repay actually. I
have older children as well. Um and it
was an incredible connection. I put in
the in the chat the information about
the chores program. So Jeff Murray
mentioned the wood donations for heating
and that would be a great connection
with AHM. They're already doing the work
and they offer these services for senior
citizens and in our towns of of Andover,
Hebrin, and Marboro for the board and
they have it already set up and the
senior centers usually have the
application forms. So, I encourage um
everyone to look into that. That would
be a wonderful endeavor um now that
we're going into the fall season. Thank
you for your work.
>> Thank you, Joanne Heert.
I am all set. Thanks,
>> Liz. Lo catch.
>> I'm all set. Thank you guys. Uh, thank
you all for all your hard work.
>> Okay. Um, Marcy Miner,
>> I No, thank you.
>> Tess Grouse.
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Okay. And I know we have John Gail on,
but John, um, I believe we're inviting
you into our meeting if that's accurate,
Eric.
>> Uh, no, that is not John Gail. Go ahead.
>> I have no comments.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
>> Diane Grener just joined also.
>> Um, well then let's give Diane Grineer
some time on air. Diane Grineer
can't hear you, Diane.
>> Sorry.
>> She's underwater.
>> All right, Diane, I would love to give
you time, but we'll have to do that uh
the next
>> Oh, yes. There you go.
>> I'm sorry. I just
>> on vacation.
>> I just got home and logged on and I have
no comment because I didn't hear any of
the meeting whatsoever. So, sorry.
Enjoy.
All right. Okay. Um,
so, uh, everyone, thank you very much
for the time for staying on with the
meeting. Um, I'm going to Eric, and
before I make this motion, I want to
make sure that, uh, I'm going to invite
you. I'm going to invite, uh, Attorney
O'Brien. Is there anyone else that needs
to be invited into uh, our executive
session?
>> Not at this time.
>> Okay. U, everyone else, thank you very
much. I appreciate it. Uh want to make a
motion that we move to executive session
to to discuss uh the pending request for
employment appeal hearing.
>> Someone has to second that.
>> Second.
>> Carol has seconded that. Um all those in
favor and
>> creme I
>> Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have to
rephrase that. I make a motion to go
into executive session and invite u uh
town administrator Eric Anderson and
town attorney Dennis O'Brien.
Now you all right and creme
>> I
>> Carol Lee
>> Scott Person
>> I Jeff Murray
>> I
>> Jeff Magcguire I 5 nothing everyone
thank you very much Eric if you can stop
the recording uh once we get everybody
uh either in the waiting room which with